Final Report of findings:
Justification:
Identify code architecture trends in highly ranked github repositories.

Methodology:
Select github repositories that fall under certain criteria. The three criteria are, older than 5 years, over 1000 stars and has active contributions, no older than 3 months. 
These 3 criteria select for the highest rated and well maintained repositories. A c# console app is used to filter search github for these repositories and save their metadata. 
Once all meta data has been collected, The console app will then download the repositories and analyze them with the open source tool ‘Lizard’. 
Lizard is able to pull out code characteristics, such as complexity, number of warnings, number of functions and so on. 
After each repository is analyzed the results are saved in a separate json file. 
The last portion of the console app is a csv export, where all the json data is merged and exported to a csv for python statistical analysis. 

Analysis Methods:
Google colab with Jupyter notebooks were used for the data analysis. 
Python has many great tools for statistical analysis. First a correlation heatmap on the entire dataset was generated. 
Then correlation heatmaps were generated by language and year in order to see if interesting trends emerged from categories. 
Lastly the strong correlations p value was evaluated to determine significance of the strong correlations.  

Results:
The initial heatmap generated contradicted my initial assumption about code characteristics with relation to the repositories star rating. 
There were some significant relationships that were informative but not groundbreaking. 
Repositories with many functions tended to have a higher number of lint warnings. 
Repositories 17 years old showed a very different set of correlations between any other number of groups.

Limitations:
The Lizard tool does not go into deeper code characteristics, as it is a very generalized tool. 
Selecting a few Languages and finding language specific tools may have enabled this project to drill down deeper and reveal more meaningful relationships and patterns in code. 

Conclusion:
This whole project was very informative, having my biases challenged through the data was delightful. 
Looking forward to the future, I think I’m going to do a deeper age based study with this tool to see what differences can be found between older and newer code bases.





